<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XIX: Philip Justifies His Chin</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-19" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">XIX</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Philip Justifies His Chin</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Once more Lady Malmerstoke’s page went up to the boudoir.</p>
			<p>“Mistah Philip Jettan is below, m’lady!”</p>
			<p>Up started Cleone.</p>
			<p>“I will not see him! Aunt Sarah, I beg you will go to him! Please spare me this⁠—humiliation!”</p>
			<p>Lady Malmerstoke waved her aside.</p>
			<p>“Admit him, Sambo. Yes, here. Cleone, control yourself!”</p>
			<p>“I can’t see him! I can’t! I can’t! How <em>can</em> I face him?”</p>
			<p>“Turn your back, then,” said her unsympathetic aunt. “I wonder what he has done?”</p>
			<p>“D-do you think he⁠—could have⁠—arranged everything?” asked Cleone, with a gleam of hope.</p>
			<p>“From what I have seen of him, I should say yes. A masterful young man, my dear. Else why that chin?” She moved to the door. Philip came in, immaculate as ever. “Ah, Philip!”</p>
			<p>Philip shot a look past her. Cleone had fled to the window. He bent and kissed Lady Malmerstoke’s hand.</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Bonjour, madame!</i>” He held open the door and bowed.</p>
			<p>Her ladyship laughed.</p>
			<p>“What! Turning me from my own boudoir?”</p>
			<p>“If you please, madame.”</p>
			<p>“Aunt⁠—Sarah!” The whisper came from the window.</p>
			<p>Philip smiled faintly.</p>
			<p>“Madame.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“Oh, that chin!” said her ladyship, and patted it. She went out and Philip closed the door behind her.</p>
			<p>Cleone’s fingers clasped one another desperately. Her heart seemed to have jumped into her throat. It almost choked her. She dared not look round. She heard the rustle of Philip’s coat-skirts. Never, never had she felt so ashamed, or so frightened.</p>
			<p>“Your devoted servant, mademoiselle!”</p>
			<p>Cleone could not speak. She stood where she was, trembling uncontrollably.</p>
			<p>“I have the honour of informing you, mademoiselle, that you are released from your engagements.”</p>
			<p>Was there a note of laughter in the prim voice?</p>
			<p>“I⁠—thank you⁠—sir,” whispered Cleone. Her teeth clenched in an effort to keep back the tears. She was blinded by them, and her bosom was heaving.</p>
			<p>There was a slight pause. Why did he not go? Did he wish to see her still more humiliated?</p>
			<p>“I have also to offer, on Sir Deryk’s behalf, his apologies for the happenings of last night, mademoiselle.”</p>
			<p>“Th⁠—thank⁠—you, sir.”</p>
			<p>Again the nerve-killing silence. If only he would go before she broke down!</p>
			<p>“Cleone.⁠ ⁠…” said Philip gently.</p>
			<p>The tears were running down her cheeks, but she kept her head turned away.</p>
			<p>“Please⁠—go!” she begged huskily.</p>
			<p>He was coming across the room towards her.⁠ ⁠… Cleone gripped her hands.</p>
			<p>“Cleone⁠ ⁠… dearest!”</p>
			<p>A heartbroken sob betrayed her. Philip took her in his arms.</p>
			<p>“My sweetheart! Crying? Oh no, no! There is naught now to distress you.”</p>
			<p>The feel of his arms about her was sheer bliss; their strength was like a haven of refuge. Yet Cleone tried to thrust him away.</p>
			<p>“What⁠—must you⁠—think of me!” she sobbed.</p>
			<p>He drew her closer, till her head rested against his shoulder.</p>
			<p>“Why, that you are a dear, foolish, naughty little Cleone. <i xml:lang="fr">Chérie</i>, don’t cry. It is only your Philip⁠—your own Philip, who has always loved you, and only you. Look up, my darling, look up!”</p>
			<p>Cleone gave way to the insistence of his arms.</p>
			<p>“Oh, Philip⁠—forgive me!” she wept. “I have⁠—been mad!” She raised her head and Philips arms tightened still more. He bent over her and kissed her parted lips almost fiercely.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Later, seated beside him on the couch, her head on his shoulder, and his arm about her, Cleone gave a great sigh.</p>
			<p>“But why⁠—why did you treat me so⁠—hatefully⁠—when you⁠—came back, Philip?”</p>
			<p>“I was hurt, darling, and wished to see whether you wanted the real me⁠—or a painted puppet. But then you changed suddenly⁠—and I knew not what to think.”</p>
			<p>Cleone nestled closer.</p>
			<p>“Because I thought you⁠—did not care! But oh, Philip, Philip, I have been so unhappy!”</p>
			<p>Philip promptly kissed her.</p>
			<p>“And⁠—last night⁠—Philip, you don’t think I⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Sweetheart! Is it likely that I’d believe ill of you?”</p>
			<p>She hid her face.</p>
			<p>“I⁠—I believed⁠—ill⁠—of you,” she whispered.</p>
			<p>“But you do not believe it now, sweetheart?”</p>
			<p>“No, oh no! But⁠—but⁠—that duel with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bancroft. Was it⁠—was it⁠—some⁠—French lady?”</p>
			<p>Philip was silent for a moment.</p>
			<p>“No, Cleone. That is all I can say.”</p>
			<p>“Was it”⁠—her voice was breathless⁠—“was it⁠—me?”</p>
			<p>Philip did not answer.</p>
			<p>“It was! How wonderful!”</p>
			<p>Philip was startled.</p>
			<p>“You are pleased, Cleone? Pleased?”</p>
			<p>“Of course I am! I⁠—oo!” She gave a little wriggle of delight. “Why did you not tell me?”</p>
			<p>“It is not⁠—one of the things one tells one’s ladylove,” said Philip.</p>
			<p>“Oh! And today? How did you⁠—persuade Sir Deryk?”</p>
			<p>“Through the arm. But he had no intention of holding you to your word.”</p>
			<p>Cleone grew rather rigid.</p>
			<p>“Oh⁠—indeed? Indeed?”</p>
			<p>Philip was mystified.</p>
			<p>“You did not want to be held to it, did you, <i xml:lang="fr">chérie</i>?”</p>
			<p>“N-no. But⁠—I don’t like him, Philip.”</p>
			<p>“I did not, I confess. I think I do now.”</p>
			<p>“Do you? And what of James?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, James! He will recover.”</p>
			<p>There was a pause while Cleone digested this.</p>
			<p>“Philip?”</p>
			<p>“Cleone?”</p>
			<p>“You⁠—you⁠—don’t care for Jenny, do you?”</p>
			<p>“Jenny? Cleone, for shame! Because I was polite⁠—”</p>
			<p>“More than that, Philip!”</p>
			<p>“Well, dearest, no one paid any heed to her or was kind. What would you?”</p>
			<p>“It was only that? I thought⁠—I thought⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Cleone, you think too much,” he chided her. “Next you will accuse me of loving Ann Nutley!” It was a masterstroke, and he knew it.</p>
			<p>“You didn’t? Not a tiny bit?”</p>
			<p>“Not an atom!”</p>
			<p>“And no one⁠—in Paris?”</p>
			<p>“No one. I have pretended, but they all knew that I had already lost my heart.”</p>
			<p>“You pretended?⁠ ⁠… Oh!”</p>
			<p>“One must, sweetest.”</p>
			<p>“But⁠—”</p>
			<p>He drew her closer.</p>
			<p>“But never, most beautiful, did I become engaged⁠—twice in one evening!” He stifled the cry that rose to her lips.</p>
			<p>“Philip, that is ungallant, and⁠—and hateful!”</p>
			<p>He laughed.</p>
			<p>“Is it not? Ah, Cleone! Tell me, my dearest, what is in your locket?”</p>
			<p>“Something I meant to burn,” she murmured.</p>
			<p>“But did not?”</p>
			<p>“No⁠—I could not.” She fumbled at her bosom and drew out the trinket. “See for yourself, Philip.”</p>
			<p>He opened it. A rolled lock of brown hair fell out and a torn scrap of parchment. Philip turned it over.</p>
			<p>“Yours till death, Philip,” he read. “Cleone, my love.”</p>
			<p>She buried her face on his shoulder.</p>
			<p>“Your⁠—hair⁠—your poor hair!” she said.</p>
			<p>“All gone! Look up, Cleone!”</p>
			<p>She lifted her face. He gazed down at her, rapt.</p>
			<p>“Oh, Cleone⁠—I shall write a sonnet to your wonderful eyes!” he breathed.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
