<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XVII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-17" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVII</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="subtitle">Mistress Cleone at Her Wits’ End</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Sir Maurice and his brother were sitting at breakfast next morning when Philip burst in on them. Tom jumped up and swore.</p>
			<p>“Damn you, Philip! At this hour!”</p>
			<p>Philip paid not the slightest heed to him. He grasped his father by the shoulder.</p>
			<p>“Father, you must to Lady Malmerstoke’s house at once!”</p>
			<p>Sir Maurice ate another mouthful of beef.</p>
			<p>“Sit down, my son, and be calm. What’s to do?”</p>
			<p>“God alone knows!” cried Philip. He sank into a chair and rejected his uncle’s offer of breakfast. “Breakfast? What have I to do with food when I’m nigh demented?”</p>
			<p>“Drink’s the thing,” agreed Tom placidly. He pushed a tankard of ale towards his nephew. “What ails you, lad?”</p>
			<p>“Cleone’s betrothed to Brenderby,” announced Philip wretchedly.</p>
			<p>“No!” Tom was dumbfounded.</p>
			<p>“And to Winton.” Philip sought to drown his troubles in the tankard.</p>
			<p>“What!” Sir Maurice dropped his knife. “Betrothed to Brenderby <em>and</em> Winton? You’re raving!”</p>
			<p>“Would to God I were!” Philip emerged from the tankard, and wiped his lips with his fathers napkin. “I asked her to marry me at the ball last night. She refused; I won’t tell you her exact words. Half an hour later I found her kissing <i xml:lang="fr">ce scélérat</i> Brenderby in a secluded corner!” He laughed savagely.</p>
			<p>“You mean that Brenderby kissed her?” suggested Tom.</p>
			<p>“No, I do not! <i xml:lang="fr">Voyons</i>, would he be alive now had he dared embrace Cleone against her will? She submitted⁠—she wished it!”</p>
			<p>“I’ll not believe that!” exclaimed Sir Maurice.</p>
			<p>“You must believe it. She is betrothed to him. She said it herself. James was with me. He interposed, saying that she was already promised to him.”</p>
			<p>Tom gave a chuckle.</p>
			<p>“Faith, the child is rich in⁠—” He caught Philips eye and subsided. “Oh, ay, ay! Go on.”</p>
			<p>“I know no more. I deemed it time for me to withdraw.”</p>
			<p>“The proper thing to have done,” said Tom solemnly, “was to have struck an attitude and said, ‘Not so! The girl is mine!’ ”</p>
			<p>“What right had I? I was not amongst the favoured ones.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t sneer, Philip,” interposed Sir Maurice. “There must be something behind all this.”</p>
			<p>Philip turned to him.</p>
			<p>“That’s what I hope and trust! You must go at once to Lady Malmerstoke’s!” His head sank into his hands and he gave way to a gust of laughter. “Oh, Gad! neither would give way an inch. Both held Clo to her promise!”</p>
			<p>“Ye seem monstrous lighthearted about it,” said his uncle.</p>
			<p>Philip sprang up.</p>
			<p>“Because I thought that⁠—for one moment⁠—she looked at me for help!”</p>
			<p>“Which you declined to give?” asked Sir Maurice dryly.</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Mon cher père</i>, I have my own game to play. Now go to Lady Malmerstoke’s, I implore you!”</p>
			<p>Sir Maurice rose.</p>
			<p>“I’ll go at once. What madness can have seized Cleone?”</p>
			<p>Philip almost pushed him out of the room.</p>
			<p>“That is what I want to know. Quickly, Father!”</p>
			<p>The little black page swung open the door of my lady’s boudoir.</p>
			<p>“Sah Maurice Jettan!”</p>
			<p>“The very man I wish to see!” exclaimed Lady Malmerstoke. “Maurry, never were you more opportune!”</p>
			<p>Sir Maurice kissed her hand with punctilious politeness. He then smiled at Cleone, who stood by the table, pale and wan-looking.</p>
			<p>“I hope I see you well, Cleone?”</p>
			<p>“Very well, thank you, sir,” said Cleone dully.</p>
			<p>Lady Malmerstoke sat down.</p>
			<p>“Clo has disgraced me,” she said comfortably. “Is it not exciting?”</p>
			<p>Cleone turned her head away. Sir Maurice saw her lips tremble.</p>
			<p>“Please, Aunt⁠—please don’t⁠—don’t⁠—I shall wed⁠—Sir Deryk.”</p>
			<p>“And what’s to happen to t’other? You can’t wed two men, my dear. I’m not sure that I shall consent to your marrying either.”</p>
			<p>“Sir Deryk⁠—has my word.”</p>
			<p>“But so has James.”</p>
			<p>“What’s this?” Sir Maurice spoke with well-feigned astonishment. “Cleone, you are not betrothed, surely?”</p>
			<p>“To two men,” nodded her aunt. “I have never been so amused in my life. I always considered myself to be flighty, but I’ll swear I never was engaged to two men at one and the same time!”</p>
			<p>Cleone sat down, staring out of the window and biting her lips.</p>
			<p>“What!” cried Sir Maurice in liveliest horror. “Engaged to two men? Cleone!”</p>
			<p>The golden head was bowed. A great sob shook Cleone.</p>
			<p>“But⁠—good heavens, my dear! This is dreadful! How could such a thing have come to pass?”</p>
			<p>“Of course it’s dreadful,” said her ladyship. “Think of the scandal when it is known. And that’ll be soon, I’ll wager. Brenderby will never keep such a piece of spice to himself.” As she spoke, one of her eyelids flickered. Sir Maurice smiled, unseen by Cleone.</p>
			<p>“You⁠—forget, Aunt. I am going to⁠—wed⁠—Sir Deryk.” A shudder ran through her at the thought.</p>
			<p>“But I don’t understand! Tell me how it happened, Cleone!”</p>
			<p>“Yes, tell him, Clo. Mayhap he can help you.”</p>
			<p>“No one can help me,” said Cleone miserably. “I must bear the pain of my own folly. I⁠—oh, I have been so wicked!”</p>
			<p>“Now, Cleone? Why? What happened?”</p>
			<p>“I may as well tell you. It will be all over town by tonight⁠—everyone will know me for a flirtatious, flighty woman. I⁠—”</p>
			<p>“You won’t have a shred of reputation left,” said her aunt maliciously.</p>
			<p>Cleone started.</p>
			<p>“Rep⁠—Oh, and I said⁠—!”</p>
			<p>“Said what, my love?”</p>
			<p>“Naught. I⁠—I⁠—oh, Sir Maurice, Sir Maurice, I am so unhappy!” Cleone burst into tears.</p>
			<p>Sir Maurice patted one heaving shoulder.</p>
			<p>“There, there, Cleone! Tell me all about it!”</p>
			<p>“It⁠—it was at the ball last n-night. I⁠—I⁠—no, first James proposed⁠—to me, and I said yes, but I didn’t mean it!”</p>
			<p>“You said yes, but you didn’t mean it?”</p>
			<p>“I didn’t hear what he said⁠—I⁠—I said yes because he worried so! And⁠—and he knew I didn’t mean it, for he walked away. Then I⁠—I⁠—went with Sir Deryk to a room apart⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Cle-one!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I know, I know! It was terrible of me, but I was so upset⁠—I hardly cared what I did!”</p>
			<p>“But why were you upset? Because James had proposed?”</p>
			<p>“No⁠—I⁠—I⁠—something⁠—else⁠—I can’t tell you! Anyway⁠—Sir Deryk took me to this room, and⁠—and taught me to⁠—to dice⁠—yes, I know it was horrid! And⁠—and I lost my rose to him, and when he⁠—was taking it, he broke the string of my locket, and he wouldn’t give it me, but said he must see what was inside, and I <em>couldn’t</em> let him! I <em>couldn’t</em>!”</p>
			<p>“What was inside?” asked Sir Maurice.</p>
			<p>“For heaven’s sake, don’t ask her that!” begged Lady Malmerstoke. “It sets her off into floods of tears!”</p>
			<p>“Aunt, <em>please</em>! And⁠—and so I played him⁠—for it⁠—and I lost and had to⁠—to kiss him⁠—for it. Don’t, don’t look at me! And then⁠—and then <em>he</em> came⁠—with James⁠—and saw! What he must <em>think</em> of me! And I said that he⁠—Oh, he must⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Who is ‘he’?” asked Sir Maurice innocently. He watched a telltale blush steal up under Cleone’s fingers.</p>
			<p>“<abbr>Mr.</abbr>⁠—<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jettan⁠—I⁠—he⁠—saw me kiss⁠—Sir Deryk! Then⁠—then⁠—I think, to spare me⁠—Sir Deryk said I was his betrothed wife. I could not say I was not, could I? It was too dreadful! And Phil⁠—<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jettan congratulated us! But James suddenly said he was going to marry me because I had said yes to him⁠—by mistake! Of course I said I was not, but he wouldn’t release me from my word, and nor would Sir Deryk! Then⁠—then he⁠—Ph⁠—I mean <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jettan⁠—just bowed and went away, but I could see what he⁠—thought of⁠—of me. Oh, what shall I do? Neither will let me go! I am betrothed to two gentlemen, and⁠—oh, <em>what</em> shall I do?”</p>
			<p>Sir Maurice took a pinch of snuff. A smile hovered about his mouth. He shut the box with a snap.</p>
			<p>“It seems, my dear, that the situation calls for a third gentleman,” he said, and picked up his hat.</p>
			<p>Cleone sprang to her feet.</p>
			<p>“Oh⁠—oh, what are you going to do?” she cried.</p>
			<p>Sir Maurice walked to the door.</p>
			<p>“It needs a masterful hand to extricate you from your delicate position,” he said. “I go in search of such a hand.”</p>
			<p>Cleone ran to him, clasping his arm.</p>
			<p>“No, no, no! Oh, for heaven’s sake, Sir Maurice, stop!”</p>
			<p>He laid a hand over her clutching fingers.</p>
			<p>“My dear, do you want a scandal?”</p>
			<p>“No, oh no! But I must persuade James!”</p>
			<p>“And do you want to marry this Brenderby?”</p>
			<p>“I⁠—am going to marry him.”</p>
			<p>“Cleone, answer me! Do you want to marry him?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t want to marry anyone! I wish I were dead!”</p>
			<p>“Well, child, you are not dead. I refuse to see you fall into Brenderby’s clutches, and I refuse to countenance the scandal that would arise if you rejected him. I am too old to serve you, but I know of one who is not.”</p>
			<p>“Sir Maurice, I implore you, do not speak to him! You don’t understand! You⁠—Oh, stop, stop!”</p>
			<p>Sir Maurice had disengaged himself. He opened the door.</p>
			<p>“You need not fear that the third gentleman will cause you any annoyance, my dear. I can vouch for his discretion.”</p>
			<p>Cleone tried to hold him back.</p>
			<p>“Sir Maurice, you don’t understand! You must not ask Ph⁠—your son to⁠—to⁠—help me! I⁠—I didn’t tell you all! I⁠—Oh, come back!”</p>
			<p>The door closed behind Sir Maurice.</p>
			<p>“A very prompt, wise man,” commented Lady Malmerstoke. “Now I am to be baulked of the scandal. Hey-dey!”</p>
			<p>Cleone paced to and fro.</p>
			<p>“I can’t face him! I can’t, I can’t! What must he <em>think</em> of me? What must he think? Aunt, you don’t know all!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, I do,” retorted her ladyship.</p>
			<p>“No, no, you do not! Philip asked me to marry him⁠—and⁠—I refused! I⁠—I⁠—told him⁠—I would not marry a man with a tarnished reputation! I⁠—I said that⁠—and worse! I accused him of trifling and⁠—and⁠—oh, it’s too awful! That he should have been the one to see! How he must scorn me. Oh, Aunt, Aunt, can’t you say something?”</p>
			<p>“Ay, one thing. That you will have to be very humble to Master Philip. At least, he was never betrothed twice in one night.”</p>
			<p>Cleone collapsed on to the couch.</p>
			<p>“I’ll not see him! I⁠—oh, I must go home at once! I must, I must! Everything is all my fault! I ought never to have⁠—sent him away! And now⁠—and now he despises me!”</p>
			<p>“Who says so?”</p>
			<p>“I⁠—how could he do else? Don’t⁠—don’t you realise how dreadful I have been? And⁠—and his face⁠—when⁠—when he⁠—heard everything! He’ll never never believe⁠—the truth!”</p>
			<p>“What matters it?” asked my lady carelessly. “Since you do not love him⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I do, I do, I do!” wept Cleone.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>François admitted Sir Maurice. His round face was perturbed. It cleared somewhat at the sight of Sir Maurice.</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Ah, m’sieur, entrez donc!</i> M’sieur Philippe he is like one mad!⁠—He rage, he go up and down the room like a caged beast! It is a woman, without doubt it is a woman! I have known it <i xml:lang="fr">depuis longtemps</i>! Something terrible has happened! M’sieur is <i xml:lang="fr">hors de lui-même</i>!”</p>
			<p>Sir Maurice laughed.</p>
			<p>“Poor François! I go to reassure m’sieur.”</p>
			<p>“Ah, if m’sieur can do that!”</p>
			<p>“I can⁠—most effectively. Where is he?”</p>
			<p>François pointed to the library door.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Philip literally pounced on his father.</p>
			<p>“Well? You have seen her? Is she in love with Brenderby? Is she to wed him? What did she tell you?”</p>
			<p>Sir Maurice pushed him away.</p>
			<p>“You are the second distracted lover who has clutched me today. Have done.”</p>
			<p>Philip danced with impatience.</p>
			<p>“But speak, Father! Speak!”</p>
			<p>Sir Maurice sat down leisurely and crossed his legs.</p>
			<p>“At the present moment Cleone is betrothed. Very much so,” he added, chuckling. “I am about to put the whole matter into your hands.”</p>
			<p>“My hands? She wants my help?”</p>
			<p>“Not at all. She is insistent that you shall not be appealed to. In fact, she was almost frantic when I suggested it.”</p>
			<p>“Then does she not want to marry Brenderby?”</p>
			<p>“Certainly not. But she will do if you fail to intervene.”</p>
			<p>Philip flung out his hands.</p>
			<p>“But tell me, sir! What happened last night?”</p>
			<p>“Sit down and be quiet,” said Sir Maurice severely. “I am on the point of telling you.”</p>
			<p>Philip obeyed meekly.</p>
			<p>“And don’t interrupt.” Sir Maurice proceeded to relate all that he had heard from Cleone.⁠ ⁠… “And she was so upset that she went with Brenderby, not caring what happened. That is the whole story,” he ended.</p>
			<p>“Upset? But⁠—was she upset⁠—because I had offered and been rejected?”</p>
			<p>“Presumably. Now she is so hopelessly compromised that she daren’t face you.”</p>
			<p>Philip sank his head into his hands and gave way to a long peal of laughter.</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Sacré nom de Dieu</i>, the tables are turned, indeed. Oh, Clo, Clo, you wicked little hussy! And what was in that locket?”</p>
			<p>“That you will have to ask her yourself,” answered Sir Maurice.</p>
			<p>Philip jumped up.</p>
			<p>“And I shall. <i xml:lang="fr">Mordieu</i>, never did I dream of such a solution to my difficulties!”</p>
			<p>“Perhaps she still will not have you, Philip,” warned Sir Maurice.</p>
			<p>Philip flung back his head.</p>
			<p>“Thunder of God, she will have me now if I have to force her to the altar! <i xml:lang="fr">Ciel</i>, you have taken a load off my mind, sir! I thought she cared for Brenderby! She smiled on him so consistently. And now for <i xml:lang="fr">ce cher</i> Brenderby! I am going to enjoy myself.”</p>
			<p>“Remember, Philip! No breath of scandal!”</p>
			<p>“Am I so clumsy? Not a whisper shall there be! François, François! My hat, my cloak, my boots, and my <span class="smcap">sword</span>!”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
