<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VIII: In Which Philip Delivers Himself of a Rondeau</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-8" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">In Which Philip Delivers Himself of a Rondeau</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p><span xml:lang="fr"><abbr>M.</abbr> Le Comte de Saint-Dantin</span> gave a select dinner and card-party some few weeks after the coming of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Bancroft. Only his chosen intimates were invited, and amongst them was Philip. At half-past five all the guests, save one, were assembled in the library, and <span xml:lang="fr">Saint-Dantin</span> was comparing his chronometer with the clock on the mantelpiece.</p>
			<p>“Now what comes to <span xml:lang="fr">Philippe</span>?” he inquired of no one in particular. “Where is the child?”</p>
			<p>“He was at the ball last night,” said <span xml:lang="fr"><abbr>M.</abbr> de Chatelin</span>, smoothing his ruffles. “He left early and in great haste.” He raised his eyes and they were twinkling. “The pearl that hung from <span xml:lang="fr">Mademoiselle de Marcherand</span>’s right ear inspired him and he fled.”</p>
			<p>“Fled? Why?”</p>
			<p>“I believe, to compose a ballade in its honour.”</p>
			<p><span xml:lang="fr">Saint-Dantin</span> flung up his hands.</p>
			<p>“May the devil fly away with <span xml:lang="fr">Philippe</span> and his verse! I dare swear it’s that that keeps him now.”</p>
			<p><span xml:lang="fr">Paul de Vangrisse</span> turned his head.</p>
			<p>“Do you speak of <span xml:lang="fr">Philippe</span>? I thought I heard his name?”</p>
			<p>“But yes! <span xml:lang="fr">Henri</span> declares he is possessed of an inspiration for a ballade to <span xml:lang="fr">Julie de Marcherand</span>’s pearl.”</p>
			<p><span xml:lang="fr">De Vangrisse</span> came towards them, stiff silks rustling.</p>
			<p>“Alas, it is too true. I visited him this morning and found him <i xml:lang="fr">en déshabillé</i>, clasping his brow. He seized on me and demanded a rhyme to some word which I have forgot. So I left him.”</p>
			<p>“Can no one convince <span xml:lang="fr">Philippe</span> that he is not a poet?” asked <span xml:lang="fr">De Bergeret</span> plaintively.</p>
			<p><span xml:lang="fr">De Vangrisse</span> shook his head.</p>
			<p>“One may tell him that he is no swordsman, and no true <i xml:lang="fr">cavalier</i>; one may decry all his graces and he will laugh with one; but one may not say that he will never be a poet. He will not believe it.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, he believes it, <i xml:lang="fr">au fond</i>,” answered <span xml:lang="fr">Saint-Dantin</span>. “It amuses him to pretend. Ah, here he is!”</p>
			<p>Into the room came Philip, a vision in shades of yellow. He carried a rolled sheet of parchment, tied with an amber ribbon. He walked with a spring, and his eyes sparkled with pure merriment. He waved the parchment roll triumphantly.</p>
			<p><span xml:lang="fr">Saint-Dantin</span> went forward to greet him.</p>
			<p>“But of a lateness, <span xml:lang="fr">Philippe</span>,” he cried, holding out his hands.</p>
			<p>“A thousand pardons, <span xml:lang="fr">Louis</span>! I was consumed of a rondeau until an hour ago.”</p>
			<p>“A rondeau?” said <span xml:lang="fr">De Vangrisse</span>. “This morning it was a ballade!”</p>
			<p>“This morning? Bah! That was a year ago. Since then it has been a sonnet!”</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">A Dieu ne plaise!</i>” exclaimed <span xml:lang="fr">Saint-Dantin</span> devoutly.</p>
			<p>“Of course,” agreed Philip. “The theme demanded a rondeau. At three this afternoon I discovered that it was so. Did you come to see me this morning, <span xml:lang="fr">Paul</span>?”</p>
			<p>“You asked me for a rhyme,” <span xml:lang="fr">De Vangrisse</span> reminded him.</p>
			<p>“So I did! A rhyme for <i xml:lang="fr">tout</i> and <i xml:lang="fr">fou</i>, and you gave me <i xml:lang="fr">chou</i>!”</p>
			<p>“Whereupon you threw your wig at me, and I fled.”</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Chou!</i>” repeated Philip with awful scorn. “<i xml:lang="fr">Chou!</i>”</p>
			<p>Gently but firmly <span xml:lang="fr">Saint-Dantin</span> took the parchment from him.</p>
			<p>“You shall read it to us later,” he promised. “But now you will dine.”</p>
			<p>“It goes well before meat,” pleaded Philip.</p>
			<p>He was answered by ribald protests.</p>
			<p>“I’ll not listen to your verse on an empty stomach,” declared the <span xml:lang="fr">Vicomte</span>. “Belike I shall appreciate it when in my cups.”</p>
			<p>“You have no soul,” said Philip sadly.</p>
			<p>“But I have a stomach, <i xml:lang="fr">petit Anglais</i>, and it cries aloud for sustenance.”</p>
			<p>“I weep for you,” said Philip. “Why do I waste my poetic gems upon you?”</p>
			<p><span xml:lang="fr">Saint-Dantin</span> took him by the elbow and led him to the door.</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Parbleu</i>, <span xml:lang="fr">Philippe</span>, it’s what we wish to know. You shall expound to us at dinner.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Midway through the meal the <span xml:lang="fr">Vicomte</span> remembered something. He nodded across the table to Philip, who was engaged in a lively and witty argument with <span xml:lang="fr">De Bergeret</span>.</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">A propos</i>, <span xml:lang="fr">Philippe</span>. Your so dear friend has been talking about you!”</p>
			<p>“Which so dear friend?” asked Philip. “<span xml:lang="fr">Jules</span>, if you maintain in the face of my exposition that <span xml:lang="fr">Jeanne de Fontenay</span> can rival <span xml:lang="fr">la Salévier</span> in the matter of⁠—”</p>
			<p>“But attend!” insisted the <span xml:lang="fr">Vicomte</span>. “The Englishman⁠—the Bancroft⁠—<i xml:lang="fr">peste</i>, what a name for my tongue!”</p>
			<p>Philip broke off in the middle of his discourse. His eyes gleamed in the candlelight.</p>
			<p>“Bancroft? What does he say of me?”</p>
			<p>“A great deal, if all I hear is true.”</p>
			<p>Philip set down his glass.</p>
			<p>“Indeed! Now, what might you have heard, <span xml:lang="fr">De Ravel</span>?”</p>
			<p>“It would appear that <i xml:lang="fr">ce cher</i> Bancroft feels no love for you, <i xml:lang="fr">mon pauvre</i>. If <span xml:lang="fr">De Graune</span> is to be believed, he resents your presence here. He says he has been deceived in you. It is all very sad.”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Philip. He frowned. “Very sad. But what does he say?”</p>
			<p>“He divulges your close-guarded secret,” said the <span xml:lang="fr">Vicomte</span> solemnly.</p>
			<p>“Oh!” Philip turned in his chair and leaned his elbows on the table. “It is possible that I shall have a word to say to <abbr xml:lang="fr">M.</abbr> Bancroft. Continue, <span xml:lang="fr">Charles</span>!”</p>
			<p>“He speaks of a lady in ‘Leetle Feeteldean’ who has blue, blue eyes, and⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Shall we pass over her eyes?” smiled Philip.</p>
			<p>“But certainly! Her hair⁠—”</p>
			<p>“And her hair? In fact, shall we pass over all her attractions?”</p>
			<p>“He is very much in love,” loudly whispered <span xml:lang="fr">De Bergeret</span>.</p>
			<p>Philip flashed a smile at him.</p>
			<p>“Very much, <span xml:lang="fr">Jules</span>. Proceed, <span xml:lang="fr">Vicomte</span>.”</p>
			<p>The <span xml:lang="fr">Vicomte</span> sipped his wine.</p>
			<p>“<abbr xml:lang="fr">M.</abbr> Bancroft, he told of your⁠—ah⁠—infatuation. He described the lady⁠—oh, fully!”</p>
			<p>The thin lips were growing into a straight, smiling line, tightly compressed. Philip nodded.</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Allons! Allons!</i>”</p>
			<p>“<span xml:lang="fr">Vicomte</span>, does the gossip of the gaming-halls amuse you?” asked <span xml:lang="fr">Saint-Dantin</span> sharply.</p>
			<p>But the <span xml:lang="fr">Vicomte</span> was a mischief-loving soul. He disregarded the rebuke.</p>
			<p>“A pretty piece, he called her, but no more than a simple country wench. By name⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Oh, have done!” exclaimed <span xml:lang="fr">Saint-Dantin</span> impatiently.</p>
			<p>“But no!” Philip waved him aside. “I am very interested in what <span xml:lang="fr">M’sieur</span> has to say.”</p>
			<p>“By name, Cleone. We have it from <abbr xml:lang="fr">M.</abbr> Bancroft that she falls in love with him for his <i xml:lang="fr">beaux yeux</i> and his so charming manner.”</p>
			<p>“Ah!” Philip’s chin sank into his cupped palms. “<i xml:lang="fr">Et puis?</i>”</p>
			<p>“It is further recorded that one <span xml:lang="fr"><abbr>M.</abbr> Philippe</span> Jettan importuned her with his clumsy attentions, so that <abbr xml:lang="fr">M.</abbr> Bancroft was compelled to teach this <span xml:lang="fr"><abbr>M.</abbr> Philippe</span> a sharp lesson. And when one asks, ‘What of the pretty Cleone?’ he shrugs his shoulders and replies, very superbly, that he wearied of her as of all others.”</p>
			<p><span xml:lang="fr">Saint-Dantin</span>’s crisp voice cut into the sudden silence.</p>
			<p>“<span xml:lang="fr">Philippe</span>, fill your glass. <span xml:lang="fr">Paul</span> here tells me of a pass he conceived in his duel with Mardry last month. A⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I will ask <span xml:lang="fr">Paul</span> to show me that pass,” said Philip. He leaned back in his chair and laughed softly. A moment later he had resumed his interrupted discussion with <span xml:lang="fr">De Bergeret</span>.</p>
			<p>Afterwards <span xml:lang="fr">Saint-Dantin</span> took him aside.</p>
			<p>“<span xml:lang="fr">Philippe</span>, I would not have had that happen at my table! <span xml:lang="fr">Charles</span> is incorrigible!”</p>
			<p>“On the contrary, I am grateful to him,” replied Philip. “I might not have heard else. Now I will shut that fellow’s mouth.”</p>
			<p>“How?” asked <span xml:lang="fr">Saint-Dantin</span> blankly.</p>
			<p>Philip made an imaginary pass in the air.</p>
			<p>“Short of killing him,” objected <span xml:lang="fr">Saint-Dantin</span>, “I don’t see⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Kill him? Not I! I may count on you to⁠—uphold me?”</p>
			<p>“Of course. But what do you mean to do?”</p>
			<p>“First I will reverse the tables. I will punish him. Then I will assure him that my friends will espouse my cause if he again mentions my lady’s name in public.”</p>
			<p><span xml:lang="fr">Saint-Dantin</span> nodded.</p>
			<p>“I’ll vouch for those here tonight.”</p>
			<p>“Wait! Any mention of her name will be reported to me, and I shall send <span xml:lang="fr">François</span> to administer a little beating. It is well.”</p>
			<p>The <span xml:lang="fr">Comte</span> laughed outright.</p>
			<p>“Oh, <span xml:lang="fr">Philippe</span>, thou art a young hothead! Is this Cleone of so great account?”</p>
			<p>Philip drew himself up.</p>
			<p>“She is the lady whom I hope one day to make my wife.”</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Comment?</i> Your wife? <i xml:lang="fr">Ah, voyons! Cela change l’affaire!</i> I did not know that. Stop his talk, by all means.”</p>
			<p>“It’s what I am going to do,” said Philip. “<i xml:lang="fr">Scélérat!</i>”</p>
			<p>“With a vile taste for pink, <i xml:lang="fr">hein</i>? You’ll call upon me?”</p>
			<p>“If you please. And, I think, <span xml:lang="fr">De Bergeret</span>.”</p>
			<p>“<span xml:lang="fr">Saint-Dantin</span>, a wager!” called <span xml:lang="fr">De Vangrisse</span>. “What are you talking of so earnestly?”</p>
			<p>“Of pink coats,” answered Philip. “Oh, my rondeau! Where is it?”</p>
			<p>“Devil take your rondeau!” cried the <span xml:lang="fr">Vicomte</span>. “Come and hazard a throw with me.”</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">A l’instant!</i>” Philip untied the ribbon about his rondeau and spread out the parchment. “I insist that you shall listen to this product of my brain!” He mounted a chair amid derisive cheers, and bowed right and left in mock solemnity. “To the Pearl that Trembles in her Ear.</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem" xml:lang="fr">
				<p>
					<span>“Cette petite perle qui tremblotte</span>
					<span>Au bout ton oreille, et qui chuchotte</span>
					<span class="i2">Je ne sais quoi de tendre et de malin.</span>
					<span class="i2">A l’air à la fois modeste et coquin,</span>
					<span>Si goguenarde est elle et si dévote.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“A regarder c’est toute une gavotte</span>
					<span>Où l’on s’avance, se penche, et pivote,</span>
					<span class="i2">Lors que tu branles d’un movement fin</span>
					<span class="i4">Cette petite perle.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“C’est une étoile dans le ciel qui flotte⁠—</span>
					<span>Un vif éclair qui luit dans une grotte⁠—</span>
					<span class="i2">Un feu follet qui hors de mon chemin</span>
					<span class="i4">M’attire, m’éblouit, m’égare⁠—”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Philip paused for his final effect. Arose <span xml:lang="fr">Saint-Dantin</span>, and like a flash interjected:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span class="i24">“Enfin,</span>
					<span>Elle m’embête⁠—saperlipopOtte!⁠—</span>
					<span class="i4">Cette petite perle.”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Outraged, Philip threw the parchment at his head.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
