<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VI: The Beginning of the Transformation</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-6" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Beginning of the Transformation</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Philip stood in the middle of the floor, expostulating. A sleek valet was kneeling before him, coaxing his gold-clocked stockings over the knee of his small-clothes, and a middle-aged exquisite was arranging his Mechlin cravat for the seventh time, a frown crinkling his forehead, and French oaths proceeding from his tinted lips. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Thomas Jettan was giving the nails of Philip’s right hand a last, lingering polish. And Philip, supremely miserable, expostulated in vain.</p>
			<p><span xml:lang="fr">François</span> sat back on his heels and eyed Philip’s legs adoringly.</p>
			<p>“But of an excellence, M’sieur! So perfect a calf, M’sieur! So vairy fine a laig,” he explained in English.</p>
			<p>Philip tried to squint down at them, and was rewarded by an impatient exclamation from the gentleman who was wrestling with his cravat.</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Tais-toi, imbécile!</i> ’Ow is it zat I shall arrange your cravat if you tweest and turn like zis? Lift your chin, <span xml:lang="fr">Philippe</span>!”</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Mais, monsieur, je⁠—je⁠—cela me donne⁠—mal au cou.</i>”</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Il faut souffrir pour être bel</i>,” replied the <span xml:lang="fr">Marquis</span> severely.</p>
			<p>“So it seems,” said Philip irritably. “Tom, for God’s sake, have done!”</p>
			<p>His uncle chuckled.</p>
			<p>“I’ve finished, never fear. <span xml:lang="fr">Jean</span>, that is wonderful!”</p>
			<p><span xml:lang="fr">Le Marquis de Château-Banvau</span> stepped back to view his handiwork.</p>
			<p>“I am not altogether satisfied,” he said musingly.</p>
			<p>Philip warded him off.</p>
			<p>“No, no, M’sieur! I am sure it is perfection!”</p>
			<p>The <span xml:lang="fr">Marquis</span> disregarded him. Once more his nimble fingers busied themselves amongst the folds of soft lace. His eyes gleamed suddenly.</p>
			<p>“It is well! <span xml:lang="fr">François</span>, the sapphire pin! Quickly!”</p>
			<p>The valet held it out. He and Tom watched anxiously as the <span xml:lang="fr">Marquis</span>’ hand hovered, uncertain. Philip felt that this was a supreme moment; he held his breath. Then the pin was fixed with one unerring movement, and the two onlookers drew deep breaths of relief.</p>
			<p>The <span xml:lang="fr">Marquis</span> nodded.</p>
			<p>“Yes, Tom, you are right. It is a triumph. Sit down, <span xml:lang="fr">Philippe</span>.”</p>
			<p>Philip sank into a chair by the dressing-table.</p>
			<p>“What now? Have you nearly finished?”</p>
			<p>“Now the rouge. <span xml:lang="fr">François</span>, haste!”</p>
			<p>Philip tried to rebel.</p>
			<p>“I will not be painted and powdered!”</p>
			<p>The <span xml:lang="fr">Marquis</span> fixed him with a cold eye.</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Plaît⁠—il?</i>”</p>
			<p>“M’sieur⁠—I⁠—I will not!”</p>
			<p>“<span xml:lang="fr">Philippe</span>⁠—if it were not for the love I bear your papa, I would leave you zis minute. You will do as I say, <i xml:lang="fr">hein</i>?”</p>
			<p>“But, M’sieur, can I not go without paint?”</p>
			<p>“You can not.”</p>
			<p>Philip smiled ruefully.</p>
			<p>“Then do your worst!”</p>
			<p>“It is not my worst, <i xml:lang="fr">ingrat</i>. It is my best!”</p>
			<p>“Your best, then. I am really very grateful, sir.”</p>
			<p>The <span xml:lang="fr">Marquis</span>’ lips twitched. He signed to <span xml:lang="fr">François</span>.</p>
			<p>Under his deft hands Philip squirmed and screwed up his face. He complained that the haresfoot tickled him, and he winced when the <span xml:lang="fr">Marquis</span> pressed two patches on his face. When <span xml:lang="fr">François</span> dusted his cheeks with powder he sneezed, and when a single sapphire earring was placed in his left ear he scowled and muttered direfully.</p>
			<p>But the supreme torture was to come. He discovered that it required the united energies of the three men to coax him into his coat. When at last it was on he assured them it would split across the shoulders if he so much as moved a finger.</p>
			<p>The <span xml:lang="fr">Marquis</span> found him <i xml:lang="fr">fort amusant</i>, but troublesome.</p>
			<p>“Forget it, little fool!”</p>
			<p>“Forget it?” cried Philip. “How can I forget it when it prevents my moving?”</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Quelle absurdité!</i> The sword, Tom!”</p>
			<p>“How can I dance in a sword?” protested Philip.</p>
			<p>“It is <i xml:lang="fr">de rigueur</i>,” said the <span xml:lang="fr">Marquis</span>.</p>
			<p>Philip fingered the jewelled hilt.</p>
			<p>“A pretty plaything,” he said. “I have never spent so much money on fripperies before.”</p>
			<p><span xml:lang="fr">François</span> arranged the full skirts of his coat about the sword, and Tom slipped rings on to Philip’s fingers. A point-edged hat was put into his hand, an enamelled snuffbox, and a handkerchief.</p>
			<p>Thomas looked at the <span xml:lang="fr">Marquis</span>, the <span xml:lang="fr">Marquis</span> nodded complacently. He led Philip to a long glass.</p>
			<p>“Well, my friend?”</p>
			<p>But Philip said never a word. He stared and stared again at his reflection. He could not believe that it was himself. He saw a tall, slight figure dressed in a pale blue satin coat, and white small-clothes, flowered waistcoat, and gold-clocked stockings. High red-heeled shoes, diamond-buckled, were on his feet, lace foamed over his hands and at his neck, while a white wig, marvellously curled and powdered, replaced his shorn locks. Unconsciously he drew himself up, tilting his chin a little, and shook out his handkerchief.</p>
			<p>“Well!” The <span xml:lang="fr">Marquis</span> grew impatient. “You have nothing to say?”</p>
			<p>Philip turned.</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">C’est merveilleux!</i>” he breathed.</p>
			<p>The <span xml:lang="fr">Marquis</span> beamed, but he shook his head.</p>
			<p>“In time, yes. At present, a thousand times no! <i xml:lang="fr">C’est gauche, c’est impossible!</i>”</p>
			<p>Unwontedly humble, Philip begged to be made less <i xml:lang="fr">gauche</i>.</p>
			<p>“It is my intention,” said the <span xml:lang="fr">Marquis</span>. “A month or so and I shall be proud of my pupil.”</p>
			<p>“Faith, I’m proud of ye now!” cried Tom. “Why, lad, you’ll be more modish than ever Maurice was!”</p>
			<p>Philip flushed beneath his powder. A ruby on his finger caught his eye. He regarded it for a moment, frowning, then he took it off.</p>
			<p>“Oh?” queried the <span xml:lang="fr">Marquis</span>. “Why?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t like it.”</p>
			<p>“You don’t like it? Why not?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know. I’ll only wear sapphires and diamonds.”</p>
			<p>“By heaven, the boy’s right!” exclaimed Tom. “He should be all blue!”</p>
			<p>“In a month⁠—two months⁠—I shall present you at Versailles,” decided the <span xml:lang="fr">Marquis</span>. “<span xml:lang="fr">François</span>, remove that abominable ruby. And now⁠—<i xml:lang="fr">en avant</i>!”</p>
			<p>And so went Philip to his first ball.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>At the end of the month Tom went home to London, having set his nephew’s feet on the path he was to tread. He left him in charge of <span xml:lang="fr"><abbr>M.</abbr> de Château-Banvau</span>, who had by now developed a lively interest in him.</p>
			<p>After that first ball Philip threw off the last shreds of rebellion; he played his part well, and he became very busy. Every morning he fenced with an expert until he had acquired some skill with a small-sword; he spoke nothing but French from morn to night; he permitted the <span xml:lang="fr">Marquis</span> to introduce him into society; he strove to loosen his tongue, and he paid flippant court to several damsels who ogled him for his fine appearance, until his light conversation grew less forced and uncomfortable. For a while he took no interest in his tailoring, allowing Tom or <span xml:lang="fr">François</span> to garb him as they pleased. But one day, when <span xml:lang="fr">François</span> extended a pair of cream stockings to his gaze, he eyed them through his quizzing-glass for a long moment. Then he waved them aside.</p>
			<p><span xml:lang="fr">François</span> was hurt; he liked those stockings. Would not M’sieur consider them? M’sieur most emphatically would not. If <span xml:lang="fr">François</span> admired pink clocks on a cream ground, let him take the stockings. M’sieur would not wear them; they offended him.</p>
			<p>Before very long “<span xml:lang="fr">le jeune Anglais</span>” was looked for and welcomed. Ladies liked him for his firm chin, and his palpable manliness; men liked him for his modesty and his money. He was invited to routs and <i xml:lang="fr">bals masqués</i>, and to card-parties and <i xml:lang="fr">soirées</i>. Philip began to enjoy himself; he was tasting the delights of popularity. Bit by bit he grew to expect invitations from these new acquaintances. But still <span xml:lang="fr"><abbr>M.</abbr> le Marquis</span> was dissatisfied. It was all very well, but not well enough for him.</p>
			<p>However, it was quite well enough for Thomas, and he departed, chuckling and elated. He left Philip debating over two wigs and the arrangement of his jewels.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Hardly a fortnight later Philip made secure his position in Polite Society by fighting a duel with a jealous husband. Lest you should be shocked at this sudden depravity, I will tell you that there was little enough cause for fighting, as Philip considered the lady as he might consider an aunt. Happily she was unaware of this. Philip’s friends did not hold back; he had no difficulty in finding seconds, and the <i xml:lang="fr">affaire</i> ended in a neat thrust which pinked the husband, and a fresh wave of popularity for Philip.</p>
			<p>The <span xml:lang="fr">Marquis</span> told his pupil that he was a gay dog, and was met by a chilling stare.</p>
			<p>“I⁠—beg⁠—your pardon?” said Philip stiffly.</p>
			<p>“But what a modesty!” cried the <span xml:lang="fr">Marquis</span>, much amused.</p>
			<p>“Is it conceivable that you think me attracted by the smiles of <span xml:lang="fr">Madame de Foli-Martin</span>?”</p>
			<p>“But yes! Of course I think it!”</p>
			<p>“Permit me to enlighten you,” said Philip. “My affections are with a lady⁠—at home.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, la, la!” deplored the <span xml:lang="fr">Marquis</span>. “A lady of the country? A simple country wench?”</p>
			<p>“I thank God, yes,” said Philip. He depressed his friend, who had hoped for better things of him. But he thought it wiser to change the subject.</p>
			<p>“Philip, I will take you to Court.”</p>
			<p>Philip crossed one elegantly breeched leg over the other. He was, if anything, a little bored.</p>
			<p>“Yes? Next week, perhaps? I am very much engaged until then.”</p>
			<p>The shrewd eyes twinkled.</p>
			<p>“The manner is excellent, my friend. You will like to make your bow to the King.”</p>
			<p>Philip shrugged.</p>
			<p>“Certainly. I trust the King will consider himself sufficiently honoured.”</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Sans doute</i>,” bowed the <span xml:lang="fr">Marquis</span>. “But I counsel you, slayer of hearts, to cast your eyes away from <span xml:lang="fr">la Pompadour</span>.”</p>
			<p>“M’sieur, I have already told you⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes. But you have now the name for⁠—slaying of hearts.”</p>
			<p>Philip dropped his affectation.</p>
			<p>“Good gad! Do you say so, sir? I?”</p>
			<p>“It is very fashionable,” said the <span xml:lang="fr">Marquis</span> mischievously. “You become a figure.”</p>
			<p>“But I⁠—” He checked himself, and relapsed into languor. “They fatigue me.” And he yawned.</p>
			<p>“What! Even <span xml:lang="fr">la Salévier</span>?”</p>
			<p>“The woman with the enormous wig⁠—oh⁠—ah! She is well enough, but <i xml:lang="fr">passée, mon cher Marquis, passée</i>!”</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Sangdieu</i>, you are fastidious of a sudden! Is the little country chit so lovely?”</p>
			<p>“Your pardon, <span xml:lang="fr">Marquis</span>, but I prefer to leave that lady’s name out of this or any discussion.”</p>
			<p>“Or I shall have a small-sword through my heart, <i xml:lang="fr">hein</i>?”</p>
			<p>Philip smiled.</p>
			<p>“That is absurd, sir.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>That night he gave a card-party. The play was high and the bottles numerous. He lost some money, won a little, and was put to bed by his valet long after dawn. He awoke later with a splitting headache, but he considered himself a man. That was in September.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
